Test file ----
Al-Mu'tasim (796-842) was the eighth Abbasid caliph. A younger son of Caliph Harun al-Rashid, he rose to prominence as a key lieutenant of his brother Caliph al-Ma'mun after forming a private army composed predominantly of Turkish slave-soldiers. When al-Ma'mun died on campaign in August 833, al-Mu'tasim succeeded him and continued many of his policies, including support for Mu'tazilism. The traditional Arab and Iranian elites were weakened in favour of a new elite drawn from among the Turks, while the government was centralized around the caliphal court and a new capital founded to house it at Samarra. Al-Mu'tasim also achieved lasting fame as a warrior-caliph by sacking the Byzantine city of Amorium in 838. The rise of the Turks would eventually lead to factional strife and the collapse of Abbasid power in the mid-10th century, but the slave-soldier system inaugurated by al-Mu'tasim would be widely adopted throughout the Muslim world for centuries to come. (Full article...)

Recently featured: Resident Evil 5 John Adams Liberty Head double eagle
Archive By email More featured articles
Did you know...
Ishi
Ishi
... that the 1961 book Ishi in Two Worlds by Theodora Kroeber told the story of Ishi (pictured), the last known member of the Yahi people?
... that the main building in the Konya Tropical Butterfly Garden has the form of a butterfly?
... that convicted assassin Anastasia Bitsenko was one of the seven Soviet delegates to the German-Soviet peace negotiations in World War I?
... that four Apollo 11 Fiftieth Anniversary commemorative coins were issued in 2019 to commemorate the first landing on the Moon?
... that first-person shooter Bright Memory was described by critics as having the look and feel of a high-budget game, despite being developed by a single person in his spare time?
... that Egyptologist Wafaa El Saddik has provided historical tours to Margaret Thatcher, Jimmy Carter, Helmut Schmidt, and Anwar Sadat?
... that Canada's first female surgeon Jennie Smillie Robertson removed a patient's ovary on the kitchen table in their own home?
... that The Princess Saves Herself in This One?

--- end of Test File